index.md, before:

# "Library of Bodies" VR Project
An exploration of gender, bodies, and virtual reality by Ellie Litwack

[comment]: <> (A preliminary abstract - replace with final capstone card)

## Abstract 
Using virtual reality, a person can experience a sense of bodily ownership over a virtual avatar. This project will develop first person, 360-degree videos which, when delivered via a virtual reality headset, will cause this experience. Past research has focused on using this effect to understand the physiological basis of transness. In contrast, this project will focus on understanding the relationship between bodies and identities. Emphasis will be placed on the opportunity to use body swapping experiences as part of a self-actuated personal exploration of gender. The experience will be distributed on YouTube 360 to provide a practical means for people questioning their gender identities to try on a variety of possible bodies and to help people understand how others experience their own bodies.

## Project History
### Paper Prototype: 180-degree "Spatial Storyboard"
A normal storyboard is a comic-book like, shot-by-shot sketch of the temporal progression of a piece of media. This spatial storyboard instead explores the spatial path that a viewer’s gaze might follow as they are immersed in this virtual reality experience.
![Layout of story board views][paperPrototype]

### User Feedback Incorporated Prototype
Four users used an initial prototype of the VR experience. Several common themes were present in thier feedback. Each of these was adressed to create a user feedback incorporated prototype.

- Video Stability
Users noticed small amounts of shaking in the video, which was caused by an unsteady camera. A process was developed to correct for this instability. High contrast markers were securely attached to walls in the feild of view of the camera. The motion paths of the markers were reconstructed digitally. This was used to "cancel-out" the unsteadyness of the camera. After this affect was applied, users did not notice any video stability issues. Below: Reconstructed paths of high contrast markers.
![High contrast marker paths][markers]

- View angle
With the initial prototype, viewers complained that they had to strain thier heads in order to get a good view of the virtual body. The pitch of the camera was digitally adjusted by 60 degrees. Despite meaning that this moved the visual location of the virtual body away from the location of the user's actual body, users reported that they felt more immersed after the angle and *believed* that the location of the virtual body was the same as the location of thier actual body. Below: The initial view transforms, as shown by the arrows, to bring more of the body into the user's comfortable field of view (FOV)
![initial image][init]
![corrected image][correct]

## Author Bio
Ellie Litwack is a Mechanical Engineering student at the University of Maryland.

[paperPrototype]: https://i.imgur.com/lMmCdsK.jpg
[init]: https://i.imgur.com/XF2Gr3n.jpg
[correct]: https://i.imgur.com/nD3nzBe.jpg
[markers]: https://i.imgur.com/wIMIwSf.png

Commit message:

spellcheck, added section about clothes

index.md, after:

# "Library of Bodies" VR Project
An exploration of gender, bodies, and virtual reality by Ellie Litwack

[comment]: <> (A preliminary abstract - replace with final capstone card)

## Abstract 
Using virtual reality, a person can experience a sense of bodily ownership over a virtual avatar. This project will develop first person, 360-degree videos which, when delivered via a virtual reality headset, will cause this experience. Past research has focused on using this effect to understand the physiological basis of transness. In contrast, this project will focus on understanding the relationship between bodies and identities. Emphasis will be placed on the opportunity to use body swapping experiences as part of a self-actuated personal exploration of gender. The experience will be distributed on YouTube 360 to provide a practical means for people questioning their gender identities to try on a variety of possible bodies and to help people understand how others experience their own bodies.

## Project History
### Paper Prototype: 180-degree "Spatial Storyboard"
A normal storyboard is a comic-book like, shot-by-shot sketch of the temporal progression of a piece of media. This spatial storyboard instead explores the spatial path that a viewer’s gaze might follow as they are immersed in this virtual reality experience.
![Layout of story board views][paperPrototype]

### User Feedback Incorporated Prototype
Four users used an initial prototype of the VR experience. Several common themes were present in their feedback. Each of these was addressed to create a user feedback incorporated prototype.

- Video Stability
Users noticed small amounts of shaking in the video, which was caused by an unsteady camera. A process was developed to correct for this instability. High contrast markers were securely attached to walls in the field of view of the camera. The motion paths of the markers were reconstructed digitally. This was used to "cancel-out" the unsteadiness of the camera. After this affect was applied, users did not notice any video stability issues. Below: Reconstructed paths of high contrast markers.
![High contrast marker paths][markers]

- View angle
With the initial prototype, viewers complained that they had to strain their heads in order to get a good view of the virtual body. The pitch of the camera was digitally adjusted by 60 degrees. Despite the fact that this moved the visual location of the virtual body away from the location of the user's actual body, users reported that they felt more immersed after the angle and *believed* that the location of the virtual body was the same as the location of their actual body. Below: The initial view transforms, as shown by the arrows, to bring more of the body into the user's comfortable field of view (FOV)
![initial image][init]
![corrected image][correct]

- Clothing
Users lost immersion when the location of their clothes did not match the location of the clothes on the virtual body. Now, users will be instructed to wear clothes that are similar to those worn in the video.

## Author Bio
Ellie Litwack is a Mechanical Engineering student at the University of Maryland.

[paperPrototype]: https://i.imgur.com/lMmCdsK.jpg
[init]: https://i.imgur.com/XF2Gr3n.jpg
[correct]: https://i.imgur.com/nD3nzBe.jpg
[markers]: https://i.imgur.com/wIMIwSf.png
